# React

- What is React? Is it a library or framework? What's the difference between those?
  - React is a UI library. It's a library not a framework because you call it in your code; it can be integrated into part of or the entire UI
- Why use React?
  - We use it to make `single page` front end applications
  - Lets us dynamically create and render components without having to refresh pages
- What is the difference between React and ReactDOM?
  - React is a higher level package for both ReactDOM and React Native
  - ReactDOM is strictly the web implementation of React
- How many HTML pages does our React App use?
  - We render in one SINGLE page
  - It is constructed in a way that we only ever need to render one DOM object
- What is SPA?
  - Single Page Application is a website design approach where each new page's content is served not from loading new HTML pages but generated dynamically with JS's ability to manipulate the DOM elements on the existing page itself
- What are some benefits of SPA?
  - Allows users to contineu consuming and interacting with the page while new elements are being updated or fetched, and can result in much faster interactions
- What are some downsides of SPA?
  - Accessibility
  - SEO rankings
  - If your content is purely static, it can worsen initial load times
- What is the package.json?
  - Lists our dependencies
  - Lists our scripts
    - Start, test are aliases for `npm run [script]`
  - Run the build script to show the target folder
- What are node_modules?
  - Houses our dependency files
- What is gitignore?
  - Auto-generated by create-react-app to prevent us from pushing certain things to github repos
- What is the build folder?
  - After running the command `npm run build` a folder called build is created with our self-container app
- What is ReactDOM.render?
  - ReactDOM takes 2 arguements
    - The element to render
    - The location to add the element to in the DOM
- What is react.createElement?
  - react.createElement("h1", { style: { color: "blue" }}, "Hello world from react")
- What is the App.tsx? Why do we structure it in that way?
  - Main entrypoint for our application
  - This is where we render the root node for the DOM object
  - "A lot" of the time this is where we do our app routing
  - It's structured like this because easy to maintain and at the end of the day we only want one root for everything else
- What are the roles of Babel and Webpack?
  - Babel
    - Free open source JS transpiler or transcompiler that will turn things like JSX and tsx into valid JS code
    - Make sure to start all components with capital letter, this is how Babel knows its a component it has to transpile
  - Webpack
    - This is a packaging tool that takes all the different files and modules and build them into a web package to use within the browser
- What does it mean to be component-based? What does a component represent?
  - Components are reusable parts of the UI that maintain a state and get rendered to the page
- Tell me how you would start up a new React project? What does 'create react app' setup for you?
  - You should use `npm` to install `react` and any other dependencies
- How would you create a component?
  - Create either a JS class or function
- Why use components?
  - Increase reuseability and maintainability
  - Also helps loosen code coupling within the application
- What does a component have to render/return?
  - A component must return/render a JSX view of some type
  - This view can only have one single root JSX tag

```jsx
function HelloWorld() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello World!</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
```

- Now when we want to render the component, we can simply say `<Hello World/>` in our App component
- We can list the component as many times as we would like to as long as it's wrapped in another tag
- Are valuable for their reusability and their ability to manage their own independent state
- What are "props"? What is state? What data should be put in which?
  - Props are readonly; they are passed into the component
  - State is the immutable object representing the current state of the component
- What is the lifecycle of a component?
  - Constructor - use for initializing state
  - `render()` - returns the JSX to be compiled and rendered onto the browser
  - `componentDidMount()` - runs once, after the component is rendered
  - `componentDidUpdate()` - runs after every update of the component
  - `componentWillUnmount()` - runs before the component is removed from the DOM
- What is the difference between a functional and a class component?
  - Functional - before hooks, could not modify state and only used as 'display' component
  - Class - utilizes lifecycle methods and `render` method
- What are React hooks? How do we use them?
  - React hooks are functions we can call in order to access certain functionalites
  - They all start with `use` such as `useStyle()`, `useState()`, `useEffect()`
  - We call them hooks because they allow us to `hook` into certain aspects of a component whether it be style or lifecycle
- What do these hooks let us do?
  - `useState()`
    - We can add `useState()` to our imports
    - `useState()` is a function that returns an array of the following
      - Index 0, we have the state object
      - Index 1, we have the function to use to update that object state
  - `useEffect()`
    - Allows us to manage side-effects that aren't related to rendering the component
    - Typically actions such as logging or fetching data will utilize `useEffect()`
    - Takes in 2 params
      - A callback function denoting what action you want to perform
      - A dependency array of state values that act as triggers for the action on change
  - `useReducer()`
    - Allows us a better way of updating complex state logic
    - Takes in 2 params
      - The callback function with logic to update the state
      - The intial state of the object
- How do we save info in a component?
  - To save info we can use React component states
  - If we are using class components, we can set this initial state directly in the constructor
  - If we are using a function component, we can use the `useState()` hook to create and offer a method to change state
- What is the purpose of a container component?
  - A container component holds the state that it then passes to "display" child components
- What is routing and how would you do routing in React?
  - Need to install `react-router` using `npm`
  - `npm install react-router@next react-router-dom@next
  - Use the `BrowserRouter` component to provide context where routing will work
  - Use `Link` component to link to a particular route
  - Use `Switch` and `Route` components to link routes to particular components that get rendered
- What is JSX? What does it compile into? How to include JS code in JSX?
  - JSX is an extension syntax to JS - it lets you write HTML and JS code together; compiles into JS
  - Not required but helps with development
  - Write JS code by using curly braces {like this}
- What are some of the differences between JSX HTML and normal HTML?
  - Attribute names
    - Example class => className
    - You can also create your own "attributes" which are called props
  - Tag names
    - HTML tag: `<p>`
    - Component tag: `<SomeComponent>`
    - We can directly add JS into JSX HTML by using { } where as in HTML you cannot do this
- How do you handle events in React?
  - Use event binding: `<button onClick={myClickHandler}></button>`
  - For sending parameters: `<button onClick={(e) => this.deleteRow(id, e)}>Delete Row</button>`
  - Define `myClickHandler` function in your component somewhere
- What is Data Binding?
  - Data binding is when we bind data to a specific value in the state
  - For example, if we had login form and we had a username input, we want to bind whatever the user types in, to the username value in the state

```javascript
const [username, changeUsername] = useState("");
const [password, changePassword] = useState("");

const handleUsernameChange = (e: React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>) => {
  changeUsername(e.target.value);
};
const handlePasswordChange = (e: React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>) => {
  changePassword(e.target.value);
};
```

- Does React have 1-way or 2-way data binding and data flow?
  - 1-way data binding
  - Data always flows "down" to components nested within them
- If a parent component has data that a child component needs to access, what should you do?
  - Pass in the data through `props` to the child
- If you have state in two child components that a parent component needs access to, what is a good solution for that?
  - Lift the state up to the parent component and then pass it into each child via `props`
- How do you do conditional rendering?
  - Use an `if` statement in the `render()` function OR
  - Use a boolean value with logical `&&` operator in your JSX like below

```jsx
render() {
    return <div>{myBooleanValue && <SomeComponent />}</div>
}
```

- What should you remember to include as a prop for lists of elements?
  - Pass in a `key` prop that uniquely identifies the list item
  - Helps React know which items have changed, been added, or removed
- How do we use TypeScript in React?
  - `npm install typescript`
- What are some pros/cons of using TypeScript in a React application?
  - Pros: strict type checking; intellisense; features like interfaces, decorators, and access modifiers
  - Cons: adds overhead and extra transpilation; may be unnecessary for small projects
- How would you handle forms and submitting forms with React?
  - Use "controlled components" where the state of the form is based on the state of the React component
  - Not recommended, but you can use uncontrolled component with a Ref to get form values from the DOM
- How do you recommend making an AJAX call in React? Which library have you used? Why not use `fetch` directly?
  - Can use AJAX itself or `fetch`, but a library like Axios is a good idea b/c can centrally configure all requests
  - Example: need to include JWT token with every request for authorization
- How do you test React components and code that you write?
  - Jest is a unit testing tool you can use to test your code
  - Enzyme is a testing utility to make it easier to test your components' output
- What are some options for styling your React components?
  - Preferred: use the `className` prop
  - Optional: use inline styling, or "CSS-in-JS" where the styling is defined in JS

### Flux/Redux

- What is the Flux design pattern?
  - A pattern for state management with unidirectional data flow: from action -> dispatcher -> store -> view
- What is Redux? How is Redux related to Flux?
  - A global state management library
  - Useful for complex apps where managing state becomes too unwieldy
  - Redux is the popular implementation of Flux
- What are the core principles of Redux?
  - Single source of truth
    - The global state of your app is put away in an object tree inside a single store
  - State is read-only
    - The state can only be changed by emitting an action, an object that explains what has happened
  - Changes are made with pure functions
    - This is to define how the state tree is being transformed by the actions, you have to write pure reducers
- What is the difference between mapStateToProps() and mapDispatchToProps()?
  - | `mapStateToProps()`                                                                                                 | `mapDispatchToProps()`                                                                                                                           |
    | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
    | Is a function that is used to provide the stored data to the component                                              | Is a function that is used to provide the action creators with props to the component                                                            |
    | All the results of mapStateToProps() should be the plain object that will later be merged into the component's prop | All the action creators are wrapped in the dispatcher call so taht they may be called upon directly and will be merged into the component's prop |
    | Used to connect the redux state to the props of the react component                                                 | Used to connect redux actions to the react props                                                                                                 |
- Do you need to keep all component states in the Redux store?
  - No because we have to keep our application state as small as possible
  - Should only do so if it makes our lives easier while using Dev Tools
- What is Redux DevTools?
  - Time travel environment that allows live editing for Redux with action replay, hot reloading, and customizable UI
  - Can use in any browser, Chrome or Firefox
- What are some features of the Redux DevTools?
  - Allows us to inspect all the states and action payload
  - Allows us to go back into the time simply by cancelling the actions
  - Each stage action will be re-evaluated in case you change the reducer code
  - With the help of `persistState()` store enhancer, you can continue your debug sessions across page reloads
- What is an Action in Redux?
  - Plain JS objects which contain a type field.
  - Considered as an event that can describe something that has happened in the application
  - Should always contain a small amount of information that is needed to mention what has happened

```tsx
const addAction = {
  type: "ADD",
  payload: "Buy-car",
};
```

- What is 'store' in Redux?
  - Carries all the states, reducers and actions that create the app
    - It holds the state of the current Application from inside
    - store.getState(); allows access to the current state
    - store.dispatch(action); allows the state to be updated
    - store.subscriber(listener); allows to register listener callbacks
- What are some store methods?
  - getState()
  - dispatch(action)
  - subscribe(listener)
  - replaceReducer(nextReducer)

```tsx
import { createStore } from "redux";
const store = createStore(todos, ["Use Redux"]);
function addd(text) {
  return {
    type: "ADDD",
    text,
  };
}
store.dispatch(addd("Read the docs"));
store.dispatch(addd("Read about Redux"));
```

- How to access Redux store outside a react component?
  - You need to export the store from the module where it has been created with createStore

```tsx
store = createStore(myReducer);
export default store;
```

- How to structure Redux top-level directories?
  - Components
    - Used for 'dumb' React components that are unfamiliar with Redux
  - Containers
    - Used for 'smart' React components which are connected to the Redux
  - Actions
    - Used for all the action creators, where the file name should be corresponding to the part of the app
  - Reducers
    - Used for all the reducers where the file name is corresponding to the state key
  - Store
    - Used for store initialization. This directory works best in small and mid-level size apps
- What are reducers in redux?
  - Pure functions that take the previous state and an action, then it returns the next state
  - `(previousState, action) => newState`
  - Is a type of function that would pass to `Array.prototype.reduce(reducer, ?initialValue)`
  - Essential that the reducer stays pure
- What are some things you should never do in a Reducer?
  - Modify its argument
  - Make sure not to perform side effects such as routing transitions and API calls
  - Call non-pure functions such as Date.now() or Math.random()

```tsx
const initialState = { value: 0 };
function counterReducer(state = initialState, action) {
  if (action.type === "counter/increased") {
    return {
      ...state,
      value: state.value + 1,
    };
  }
  return state;
}
```

- What is the purpose of constants in Redux?
  - Allows us to find all the usages of specific functionality across the project
  - Also prevents us from making mistakes such as typos. These will gives us a Reference Error immediately

### Advanced React

- What is the virtual DOM?
  - An "ideal" or "virtual" state of the UI that is managed by React and kept in sync with the actual DOM
  - Improves performance by only requiring changing the actual DOM when needed
- How does virtual DOM compare to the DOM?
  - Kept in sync with the real DOM by a library such as ReactDOM. The process is called reconciliation
  - You tell react what state you want the UI to be in, and it makes sure the DOM matches that state. This abstracts out attribute manipulation, event handling and manual DOM updates that you would otherwise have to do
- What about a higher-order component?
  - A higher order components is a component that takes in a component, wraps it, and returns a component
- What is a pure component vs a normal one vs a higher order one?
  - Pure Component
    - State/Props should be immutable
    - State/Props should not have hierarchy
    - You should call forceUpdate() when data changes
    - We do this when we need performance boosts
    - Dumb/Stateless components
  - Normal Component
    - This can be a smart or stateful component which may update or change state
    - It will usually contain some logic that will make things happen
  - Higher Order Component
    - This is a component that takes a component and returns a slightly modified version of this component
- Why is it important to use `setState()` and replace the whole object instead of editing it directly?
  - It follows functional programming paradigm; cleaner and prevents consistency problems
- What is a "thunk"? What is `redux-thunk` used for?
  - Thunk is a function that wraps an expression to delay its evaluation
  - Used for delaying dispatch of an action or based on a condition
